docs: added `use cache: remote` docs (#85145)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/03-api-reference/01-directives/use-cache-remote.mdx

| **Runtime prefetchable**        | N/A (prerendered at build)          | No                                                        | Yes (when configured)               |
| **Use case**                    | Static, shared content (build-time) | Dynamic, shared content in runtime contexts (per-request) | Personalized, user-specific content |

### When to use each

- **`use cache`**: Use for static content that can be prerendered at build time and doesn't depend on request-specific data.
- **`'use cache: remote'`**: Use when caching is needed after dynamic data access (`connection()`) or for per-request caching of shared data.
- **`'use cache: private'`**: Use for user-specific content that needs to be runtime prefetched and depends on cookies, headers, or search params.

## How it works

### Dynamic context detection

When Next.js encounters certain APIs like `connection()`, `cookies()`, or `headers()`, the context becomes "dynamic". In a dynamic context:

1. **Regular `use cache` stops working** - it won't cache anything
2. **`'use cache: remote'` continues to work** - it caches in the remote cache handler

> 3. **Results are stored server-side** in cache handlers like Redis or Vercel Data Cache

Reviewer: this makes it sound like Next.js has some special logic for Vercel, which i think it doesn’t? i would suggest to omit any references to Vercel from API documentation pages and to use more generic language if these are expected to work with any service provider that implements the build adapter

4. **Cached data is shared across requests** - reducing database load and origin requests

> **Good to know:** Without `'use cache: remote'`, functions in dynamic contexts would execute on every request, potentially creating performance bottlenecks. Remote caching eliminates this issue by storing results in server-side cache handlers.

### Storage behavior

Remote caches are **persisted to server-side cache handlers**, such as:

- **Redis** (when configured)

> - **Vercel Data Cache** (on Vercel deployments)

Reviewer: here, too, listing vercel as a separate entry seems to imply special handling. the clarity for vercel customers here is probably not worth the FUD that special-casing vercel on these pages leads to. in the past @leerob cleaned up the docs from vercel references so it would be nice to avoid them creeping back in. sorry for unsolicited feedback, i hope that’s okay!

```tsx filename="app/product/[id]/page.tsx" switcher
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { connection } from 'next/server'
import { cacheTag, cacheLife } from 'next/cache'

export default async function ProductPage({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ id: string }>
}) {
  const { id } = await params

  return (
    <div>
      <ProductDetails id={id} />
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading price...</div>}>
        <ProductPrice productId={id} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

function ProductDetails({ id }: { id: string }) {
  return <div>Product: {id}</div>
}

async function ProductPrice({ productId }: { productId: string }) {
  // Calling connection() makes this component dynamic, preventing
  // it from being included in the static shell. This ensures the price
  // is always fetched at request time.
  await connection()

  // Now we can cache the price in a remote cache handler.
  // Regular 'use cache' would NOT work here because we're in a dynamic context.
  const price = await getProductPrice(productId)

  return <div>Price: ${price}</div>
}

async function getProductPrice(productId: string) {
  'use cache: remote'
  cacheTag(`product-price-${productId}`)

>   cacheLife({ stale: 3600 }) // 1 hour

Reviewer 2: Do you mean `revalidate`? I thought `stale` was the client-side cache.

  return <div>Product: {id}</div>
}

async function ProductPrice({ productId }) {
  // Calling connection() makes this component dynamic, preventing
  // it from being included in the static shell. This ensures the price
  // is always fetched at request time.
  await connection()

  // Now we can cache the price in a remote cache handler.
  // Regular 'use cache' would NOT work here because we're in a dynamic context.
  const price = await getProductPrice(productId)

  return <div>Price: ${price}</div>
}

async function getProductPrice(productId) {
  'use cache: remote'
  cacheTag(`product-price-${productId}`)
  cacheLife({ stale: 3600 }) // 1 hour

  // This database query is cached and shared across all users
  return db.products.getPrice(productId)
}
```

> **Note:** Regular [`use cache`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache) will not cache anything when used in a dynamic context (after [`await connection()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection), [`await cookies()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies), [`await headers()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/headers), etc.). Use `'use cache: remote'` to enable runtime caching in these scenarios.

> ## Difference from `use cache` and `use cache: private`

Reviewer 2: I thought this compared `use cache`, and `use cache: private`. Suggestion for clarity:

```suggestion
## How `use cache: remote` differs from `use cache` and `use cache: private`
```

| **Works in dynamic context**    | No (requires static context)        | Yes (designed for dynamic contexts)                       | Yes                                 |
| **Access to `await cookies()`** | No                                  | Yes (but not recommended - use `private` instead)         | Yes                                 |
| **Access to `await headers()`** | No                                  | Yes (but not recommended - use `private` instead)         | Yes                                 |
| **After `await connection()`**  | No (won't cache)                    | Yes (will cache)                                          | No                                  |
| **Stored in cache handler**     | Yes (server-side)                   | Yes (server-side)                                         | No (client-side only)               |
| **Cache scope**                 | Global (shared)                     | Global (shared)                                           | Per-user (isolated)                 |

> | **Runtime pre-fetchable**       | N/A (pre-rendered at build)         | No                                                        | Yes (when configured)               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Supports runtime prefetching**       | N/A (pre-rendered at build)         | No                                                        | Yes (when configured)               |
```

| **Use case**                    | Static, shared content (build-time) | Dynamic, shared content in runtime contexts (per-request) | Personalized, user-specific content |

> ### When to use each

Reviewer 2: Nice, thank you for the comparison.

```suggestion
### When to use each directive
```

- Content can be prerendered at build time
- Content is shared across all users
- Content doesn't depend on request-specific data

**Use `'use cache: remote'` when:**

- You need caching within dynamic context
- Content is shared across users but must be rendered per-request
- You want to cache expensive operations in a server-side cache handler

**Use [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private) when:**

- Content is personalized per-user (depends on cookies, headers)
- You need [runtime prefetching](/docs/app/guides/prefetching) of user-specific content
- Content should never be shared between users

## How it works

The `'use cache: remote'` directive enables runtime caching of shared data in dynamic contexts by storing results in server-side cache handlers rather than prerendering at build time.

### Dynamic context detection

When Next.js encounters certain APIs like [`connection()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection), [`cookies()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies), or [`headers()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/headers), the context becomes "dynamic". In a dynamic context:

> 1. **Regular `use cache` stops working** - it won't cache anything

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that it'll error in development? Because the fear is that this will happen silently.

> 2. **`'use cache: remote'` continues to work** - it caches in the remote cache handler

Reviewer 2: Are there docs for the cache handler? If so, this might be a good place to link to it.

```suggestion
2. **`'use cache: remote'` continues to work** - it is cached by a remote cache handler.
```

3. **Results are stored server-side** in a key-value store configured for your deployment
4. **Cached data is shared across requests** - reducing database load and origin requests

> **Good to know:** Without `'use cache: remote'`, functions in dynamic contexts would execute on every request, potentially creating performance bottlenecks. Remote caching eliminates this issue by storing results in server-side cache handlers.

> ### Storage behavior

Reviewer 2: Somewhere in this section, you may want to link to how to configure cache handlers. Otherwise, it's not actionable.

| [`headers()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/headers)                              | No                     | Yes (not recommended)            | Use [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private) instead |
| [`connection()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection)                        | No                     | Yes                              | Yes - this is the primary use case                                                         |
| [`searchParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page#searchparams-optional) | No                     | Yes (not recommended)            | Use [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private) instead |

> **Important:** If you need to cache based on cookies, headers, or search params, use [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private) instead. Remote caches are shared across all users, so caching user-specific data in them can lead to incorrect results being served to different users.

## Nesting rules

Remote caches have specific nesting rules:

> - Remote caches **can** be nested inside other remote caches

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remote caches **can** be nested inside other remote caches (`'use cache: remote'`)
```

      {/* Dynamic shared price */}
      <Suspense fallback={<PriceSkeleton />}>
        <ProductPriceComponent productId={id} />
      </Suspense>

      {/* Dynamic personalized recommendations */}
      <Suspense fallback={<RecommendationsSkeleton />}>
        <ProductRecommendations productId={id} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

function ProductDetails({ product }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{product.name}</h1>
      <p>{product.description}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

async function ProductPriceComponent({ productId }) {
  // Make this component dynamic
  await connection()

  const price = await getProductPrice(productId)
  return <div>Price: ${price}</div>
}

async function ProductRecommendations({ productId }) {
  const recommendations = await getRecommendations(productId)
  return <RecommendationsList items={recommendations} />
}

function PriceSkeleton() {
  return <div>Loading price...</div>
}

function RecommendationsSkeleton() {
  return <div>Loading recommendations...</div>
}

function RecommendationsList({ items }) {
  return (
    <ul>
      {items.map((item) => (
        <li key={item.id}>{item.name}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  )
}
```

> > **Good to know**:

Reviewer 2: I feel this section is repetitive, since we already mentioned when to  use each. 
I do like the distinction between using `cacheTag` to revalidate, and `cacheLife` to expire, good wording.
